JUDY WOODRUFF: Senate
Republicans have begun
the Fourth of July recess
with President Trump
urging them to get rid of
Obamacare, even if they
can't replace it yet.
In a tweet this morning, he
said: "If Republican senators
are unable to pass what they are
working on now, they should
immediately repeal, and then
replace at a later date."
The White House said later
that it is still - - quote --
"fully committed" to getting a
bill through the Senate.
The president's feud with cable
news hosts Mika Brzezinski
and Joe Scarborough escalated
today.
Mr. Trump drew widespread
condemnation yesterday
for crudely criticizing
Brzezinski's appearance
and intelligence.
Today, the "Morning Joe" team
on MSNBC charged the White
House had threatened them with a
tabloid expose last spring.
JOE SCARBOROUGH, MSNBC: We got
a call that, hey, The National
Enquirer is going to run
a negative story
against you guys.
And it was, you know --
Donald is friends with -- the
president's friends with the guy
that runs The National Enquirer.
And they said, if you
call the president up,
and you apologize for
your coverage, then
he will pick up the phone and
basically spike the story.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The
National Enquirer said
that it was unaware of
any discussions involving
the White House and the
"Morning Joe" hosts.
The president answered
Scarborough's allegation
another tweet.
He said -- quote -- "Fake news.
He called me to stop a
National Enquirer article.
I said no."
A scaled-back version of
President Trump's travel ban
is now in force, affecting six
mostly Muslim nations
and refugees in general.
It took effect late Thursday.
There were scattered protests
in Los Angeles and other
cities, but none of the airport
chaos that had greeted the
original order in January.
Meanwhile, Hawaii asked
a federal judge to
expand the list of those
eligible beyond immediate
family members of those
already in the U.S.
China lodged a public protest
today over U.S. plans to sell
$1.4 billion in arms to Taiwan.
The Foreign Ministry said
that the move runs counter to
President Trump's commitment to
the one-China policy.
Beijing considers Taiwan
to be a renegade province.
Separately, Chinese President
Xi Jinping was in Hong Kong
to mark the 20th anniversary
of the city's
handover from Britain.
He greeted thousands of Chinese
troops at an army garrison,
a display aimed at groups
calling for Hong
Kong's independence.
Xi made clear that
China is not letting go.
XI JINPING, Chinese President
(through translator):
After 20 years of Hong
Kong's return to the
motherland, the practice of
one country, two systems has
gained universally acknowledged
success.
Of course, we have encountered
some new situations,
new problems and new
challenges in the practice.
It is not horrible
to have problems.
The point is to figure out
some ways to solve them.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Chinese
Foreign Ministry also
caused a stir, dismissing
the 1997 agreement
with Britain.
A spokesman said it --
quote -- "no longer has any
practical significance."
There is word that the
flow of refugees out
of Syria has reversed.
The U.N. Refugee Agency
reports nearly half-a-million
Syrians have returned
to their homes this
year.
Most have returned to areas
where government forces have
regained control after years of
fighting.
Back in this country, a gunman
opened fire at a hospital in
New York City, killing one
doctor and seriously
wounding several others,
before taking his own life.
Police said the shooter was also
a doctor who had once worked
at the Bronx Lebanon Hospital.
Emergency crews and
heavily armed police
descended on the scene.
Officials said it was an
isolated incident, and
not an act of terror.
Local and federal authorities
in Chicago unveiled new efforts
today to cut the flow of illegal
guns, including adding
more federal agents.
The announcement came as
President Trump tweeted
that crime and killings
in Chicago have reached
epidemic proportions.
Officials in the city
said there's actually
been some improvement,
but they also welcomed
the federal help.
JOEL LEVIN, U.S. Attorney:
Significant progress is being
made in the effort to combat the
violence in Chicago, but the
level of violence continues at
an unacceptable level, and it
is a battle which can only be
fought with all hands on deck.
That is state, federal,
and local law enforcement.
JUDY WOODRUFF: As of Sunday,
there have been more than
1,300 shootings in Chicago this
year.
That's down from nearly 1,600
at the same point last year.
Firefighting crews are making
progress against a wildfire that
threatened to engulf an Arizona
town.
Officials reopened a
major roadway in Prescott
Valley today, north of
Phoenix, and hundreds
of people were allowed
back into their homes.
A few thousand others
are still in shelters.
On Wall Street today, the Dow
Jones industrial average gained
62 points to close at 21349.
The Nasdaq fell about
four points, and the
S&P 500 added three.
Both the Dow and the S&P
were up 8 percent for the
first half of the year.
That is the Dow's best
showing since 2013.
The Nasdaq rose 14 percent,
its best since 2009.
And on a lighter note,
Crayola is asking for help
naming a new shade of blue.
Out of 90,000 submissions, the
top five contenders are, dreams
come blue, star-spangled blue,
blue moon bliss, reach
for the stars, my
favorite, and blue-tiful.
You can vote on Crayola's
Web site starting tomorrow
through August 31.